Hi, Movie Recaps here. Today
I will show you a crime,
drama, thriller film from 2020, titled Run Hide
Fight. Spoilers ahead! Watch out and take care.
Our protagonist is Zoe Hull, a teenage girl that
struggles with the death of her mother - in fact,
she thinks she can still see her around
and even has whole conversations with her.
This has caused her to shut down emotionally and
has also put some strain on her relationship with
her father Todd, who is trying his best to connect
with her through activities like teaching her to
hunt. It is during one of these hunts that
he passes on some important wisdom to her:
she must always take care of unfinished business.
The advice resonates with Zoe, so when her shot
doesn't finish off a deer, she ends its
suffering by hitting its head with a rock.
After returning from their little hunting
trip, Todd tells Zoe that maybe they should
see a therapist again because Zoe is cutting
herself off from everything she cares about.
This comment angers Zoe and they start arguing
over it for what obviously isn't the first time,
luckily they are interrupted by her best friend
Lewis Washington, who has come to pick her up in
his car. On their way to school, they exchange
insults with some bullies in another car, they
also notice their classmate Chris Jelick planting
a strange device in the middle of an open field,
but they think it is just a prank. At school,
Lewis tries to ask Zoe to prom, but Zoe dislikes
the idea. Lewis thinks Zoe is shutting down too,
this irritates her the same way it happened with
her dad. She leaves for the bathroom after Lewis
accidentally spills a drink on her and finds Anna
Jelick moving the ceiling panels. Anna leaves the
bathroom in a rush, so Zoe takes the opportunity
to check the panels she had moved but finds
nothing behind them. Several incendiary devices
are set off around town, except for the one Kip
Quade leaves at the school's front office. Having
so many fires burning at the same time means the
roads are clogged and first responders like law
enforcement and firefighters are overwhelmed. At
school, a van suddenly crashes into the cafeteria,
carrying two armed teenagers: the leader,
Tristan Voy, and Chris Jelick. They're soon
joined by Anna Jelick and Kip Quade, who are also
carrying weapons. After shooting various students,
Tristan asks everyone to use their phones to tell
their parents what is going on. Lewis calls his
mom and leaves a message telling her he doesn't
have any regrets. Meanwhile, Zoe learns what is
going on thanks to a wounded girl that enters the
bathroom and dies there. She escapes by crawling
through the bathroom ceiling and falls into the
school kitchen, where the cook is also hiding.
When Chris comes to investigate the noises, the
cook tries to confront him, but he shoots her. Zoe
leaves the building through the back door after
he is gone. After everyone is done talking to
their parents, Tristan borrows a phone and calls
the school's front office to tell them about the
shooting. The rules say they need to confirm
the information before they can call lockdown,
so Tristan asks all the students to live-stream
with their phones and tells the video hosting
companies not to interrupt the streams or he will
have to shoot people. As he starts giving a speech
about entropy and truth, the school's principal
and security guard arrive at the cafeteria to get
their confirmation. The principal tries to talk
Tristan down by apologizing for not listening to
him before, but Chris shoots him while allowing
the guard to escape. Tristan asks everyone to
turn off their recordings except for the one with
the most viewers, which happens to be Lewis and
his streaming on the school's social page. He is
tasked with following Tristan around and recording
everything, and the hostages are ordered to
barricade the hole the van made on the wall.
Outside, Zoe considers leaving but comes
back when she hears voices. She stops a
group of students from entering the school and
warns them of what is going on, they all leave
except for Zoe's friend Cora, who accepts helping
Zoe warn the other classes that are still inside.
One of the teachers thinks they're pulling a
prank and ignores them, so to have better luck
with another classroom, they break a window.
This time they are heard, and the whole class
escapes through the window while Zoe activates
the fire alarm. This proves to be useless because
Anna goes into the electrical room to disable
the alarm and cut off power. Right after the
school's front office calls for lockdown, the
homemade bomb Kip left there earlier explodes.
The police finally arrive then, and Sheriff Tarsy
starts closing the perimeter. The situation is
finally making it to the news as well, although
they are not showing the stream, they are
recording from outside. Irritated, Tristan tells
the phone camera that the public wants to see him,
not some reporter. Meanwhile, Zoe is searching the
school to tell any remaining students to get out,
but Anna finds her and starts shooting at her.
Her leg is wounded before she manages to run away
and hide in a room filled with balloons that allow
her to sneakily jump on Anna when she follows her.
The girls fight for the gun; Zoe overpowers
Anna and shoots her. With Lewis still recording,
Tristan goes to the Spanish classroom to take
those students with him to the cafeteria.
The teacher tries to reason with him, Tristan
responds by making her take off her blouse.
He is about to touch her inappropriately when
Lewis interrupts him by saying he has some
questions from the watchers, effectively taking
Tristan's focus away from the teacher. He wants
as much attention as possible, so he is willing to
answer those questions. Tristan explains this plan
took him fourteen months to make it sing since he
had to research the building blueprints, gather
the weapons, etcetera. A police officer visits
Tristan's house to talk to his parents only to
find the mother dead, her neck had been cut open.
In the meantime, Zoe's dad hears the news about
the shooting on the radio and decides to drive
to the school with weapons loaded in his truck.
In the cafeteria, Chris is in the middle of
talking to the voices in his head when hears
on the news that the cops have arrived, so he
goes to the hole on the wall and shoots at them.
Tristan hears the gunshots and decides to
return, taking the whole Spanish class with him.
Zoe sees them in the hallway and when Kip
walks in the opposite direction from the group,
she decides to follow him. He is trying to
get to another classroom filled with students,
so Zoe appears in front of him to call
his attention and get him to chase her.
She takes him through a slippery floor and after
he falls, she unloads a fire extinguisher on his
face and also hits him with it. Kip is dragged
to the auditorium and handcuffed to a chair,
and he confesses to Zoe that he is doing all this
because of a bullying incident in middle school
that -in his eyes- has never ended; Zoe thinks he
is disgusting and pathetic for using that as an
excuse for cold-blooded murder. After taking
his shotgun, Zoe comes across another group
of students with their teacher. Wanting to help
them escape, she borrows a phone and calls Cora,
who hands her phone to the sheriff so they
can coordinate a plan. Sheriff Tarsy tells the
reporters to record him instead of the school
before calling Tristan's phone. He distracts
him with conversation while Zoe safely guides as
many groups of students as possible to the exit;
however, her rescue appears on the news, which
allows Tristan to discover the ruse. So he hangs
up on Tarsy and proceeds to call his teammates.
Zoe has Anna's phone so she answers his call,
Tristan tells her to show herself or he will start
shooting people. He even kills a student as proof.
After telling him she will be there, Zoe returns
to the auditorium and frees Kip, who is feeling
guilty for what he has done and wants to die
now. Zoe tells him he should be in charge of
his legacy and convinces him to cooperate, so she
hands him back the shotgun. While Todd sneaks into
the school grounds and gets his weapon ready to
help his daughter, Zoe makes it to the cafeteria
and Tristan starts asking her questions for the
stream. A furious Chris wants to kill her because
she shot his sister, but Tristan won't allow it,
he believes everything must happen at the right
moment. They are suddenly interrupted by Kip,
who after an exchange of insults with Chris and
Tristan, shoots his shotgun, only managing to hit
Tristan on the shoulder before Chris kills him.
Lewis gets hurt in the exchange. Zoe and Lewis
take advantage of the distraction to escape;
Chris goes after them. They hide in the Spanish
classroom, and while Zoe checks on Lewis' wound,
they confess their feelings for each other. Lewis
also informs her of some explosives hidden in the
van, so Zoe leaves the classroom to check on it,
allowing Chris to find her and chase her again.
Zoe enters the science classroom this time and
opens all the burners, starting a fire when Chris
tries to come closer. Her attempt at escaping does
not work, however, because Chris still manages
to catch her. He smashes her head against a glass
cabinet then punches her a couple of times before
throwing her to the ground. When he is about to
kill her, Todd shoots from his spot outside and
kills him instead. The police approach him as soon
as they hear the gunshot, and Zoe can do nothing
but watch through the window how they arrest and
take her father away. Afterward, Zoe grabs Chris'
gun and makes her way back to the cafeteria, only
pausing to retrieve Lewis' phone when she finds
it on the floor in a hallway. She sends Tristan a
picture of Chris' body, causing him not to talk to
her anymore. So instead she hijacks the stream
and tells Tristan the world will remember her,
not him, which enrages him. Tristan grabs one
of the explosives from the van and gives it to
a student that he drags out of the cafeteria with
him; Zoe sees them leave so she takes the chance
to go in and tell all the hostages to run now
that Tristan's gone. There is still the little
issue of the bomb in the van, which Zoe solves
by putting the shift in reverse and jamming the
gas pedal with Chris' rifle - this causes the van
to move outside and explode in the parking lot.
SWAT uses this opportunity to enter the
building, and they mistakenly arrest Zoe
while she is trying to find Tristan. An explosion
coming from the next room reveals Tristan's body,
and while the SWAT takes care of it, Zoe sees her
mother, who tells her she loves her and wishes
her goodbye before disappearing for good as Zoe
cries her heart out. Outside the school, Sheriff
Tarsy frees Zoe, shakes her hand, apologizes for
the incorrect arrest, and praises her actions;
Zoe responds by asking him to allow her to
see her father. Todd is inside a police car,
handcuffed, but he still has a heartfelt talk with
his daughter. They repair their relationship and
reassure each other of how important they are
in their lives. After making sure Lewis is fine,
Zoe notices Tristan sneaking out of the school
- he had faked his death by changing his clothes
with the other student so cops would initially
think the burned body was his. She recovers Todd's
rifle and follows Tristan into the woods, where he
is getting some money and a passport out of a box
he had hidden under a bridge as part of the plan.
Zoe does not hesitate to shoot him from afar then
comes closer, noticing the shot was not enough to
kill him. She mentions the advice on unfinished
business her dad had given her while hunting
and picks up a big rock to finish Tristan off.
Yet when she brings it down, she does not hit his
head - she drops the rock in the river instead.
Zoe decides to leave him there to die because,
unlike an animal, suffering is what he deserves.